Proposal for Data Project
Jessica Park
November 10, 2014

	My data project will correlate with the story I’m doing for Janine’s class about the teen suicide that happened last week. A 16 year-old high school junior Cameron Lee from Gunn High School, committed suicide last Tuesday by jumping in front of an incoming Caltrain late in the evening. This comes as a shock not only because the student was 16 years old, but also because he is the second student to have committed suicide by jumping in front of a Caltrain in the last month. Another Gunn High School student who graduated in 2013 died the same way on October 15.
	I find this story to be interesting because after reading through the comment sections of other publications that reported on this story last week, several students voiced their concerns about the high -level stress environment they were getting sucked into. Some people would argue that it’s the classic “tiger mom” case where the Asian parents are too hard on their children and have too high of expectations, but I got a sense from the comments that this particular kid wasn’t the only person going through this issue. After a classmate of Cameron released a video on YouTube discussing this concern, it seems as if the atmosphere is almost unbearable for these teens to endure.
	Of course everyone knows suicide isn’t something new, but I think the data that I collect for this story will give the visual it needs to show people this isn’t a small issue. I can say so much in an article with the help of experts and other students who feel like this is a big problem, but without the data I don’t feel there is a complete picture of this topic. A matter like this that focuses on children and education will get people talking, especially when it’s about a school in this area.  I think this data is also very important because it puts these numbers into perspective and helps people truly understand this increasing problem that is prevalent in this country. I feel that people are only concerned for the time being when a story like this comes out without realizing this to be a national problem that isn’t going away.
	I believe through this data, and from the research I have done so far in writing this pitch, the numbers will continue to increase as time goes on. The four data sources that I have in my possession so far, two coming from CDC surveys and reports and the two others from various youth risk websites, show that there has been an increase in teen suicide rates throughout the years. Specifically, I was able to gather data from 2009 and 2013 (the most recent statistic since 2014 isn’t over yet) that shows there has been at least a 4% increase in teen suicide rates in 4 years. The youth prevention website states that suicide is the third leading cause of death for college-age youth and students between the ages of 12-18 and there are an average of over 5,400 suicide attempts by students in high schools.
	Since this is a recent story I have attached the articles from the San Jose Mercury News, Palo Alto Online publication and The Washington Post all talking about either Cameron Lee’s suicide from last week or teen suicides in general. The 2 local publications just summarize what happened and gives readers an understanding of the problem at hand. But the most interesting part from these two articles may be from the comments section. The comments section had a mix of everything; people who were sending condolences for the family and friends, people who were arguing about the school curriculum and how difficult it was, the pressures students face in getting ready for college applications and even people who were blaming this whole thing on the “tiger mom” problem. The Washington Post article on the flip side was just about teen suicides in general and how Americans need to open their eyes to the problem that isn’t going away. Petula Dvorak, the writer of the article, paints a great picture and speaks about how more needs to be done to prevent incidents like this from happening. Sure schools have assemblies and advocacy groups/counselors talk to these kids about any issues they may be having, but there needs to be something more to help students get the help they need. I think it would be great to refer to the latter article for a general perspective on teen suicide and then use the two other articles for the local spin on this macro issue. 
	For the next 3 weeks, I hope some advocacy groups in this area will speak to me and give me specific numbers, or as specific as they can be, about teen suicides in general and ones that have happened in the bay area in the last several years. One of the CDC statistics shows a breakdown of teen suicides by ethnicity as well, so that would be something I would like to look into as well. I don’t have a concrete idea of what I would like my final presentation to be, but I think I’m going down the street of creating a map of California and zooming in on the Bay area, or creating several pie charts to show the increase in suicide rates from 2009 to 2013.




ARTICLE WEBSITES:

1.	http://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2014/11/04/palo-alto-teen-killed-on-tracks-tuesday

2.	http://www.mercurynews.com/bay-area-news/ci_26862231/palo-alto-teen-killed-by-caltrain-early-tuesday#disqus_thread

3.	http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/teen-suicide-adults-need-to-listen-to-kids-and-its-time-to-talk-about-the-issue/2014/04/14/1011d4d0-c412-11e3-bcec-b71ee10e9bc3_story.html

