<p><b> Post-Mortem Project Memo </b><p>

Initially when I started this project, I wanted to focus on a topic that could go hand in hand with the feature piece I was writing for Janine’s class, which dealt with the recent suicides that took place on Caltrain’s right of way in the Palo Alto area. I was ambitious and naïve in the beginning and hoped I would be able to find enough data concerning the Palo Alto community and the Bay Area, to put together a story that could stand alone.  However, after starting my research and talking with you about this topic numerous times throughout the last few weeks, I realized I needed to broaden my horizon and cover the topic of suicide on a state and national level as well. I knew suicide was a subject that the media constantly talked about, but I wanted to find out for myself whether or not there really was an increase in the number of suicides each year in this country. I also wanted to see the breakdown of which states had the most and least number of suicides. More specifically, to go along with my feature piece for Janine, I wanted to see the numbers from California in comparison to the rest of the country. 

It’s one thing to hear an anchor or a reporter talk about a single incident or a string of incidents that happened in a certain area, but it’s another to actually see the numbers for yourself to validate your assumptions. First, I started off with the number of deaths that happened on Caltrain’s tracks, since the incident that sparked my interest on this topic was Cameron Lee’s death in November. Then I moved onto looking at suicide numbers within California and compared those findings to other states in the country. Finally to top it off, I went even broader and took it nationally to see whether or not this was a problem all the states were facing today.
	
My findings for this project validated my assumptions that this was, and still is a growing problem in this country. From the information I got from the CDC, the American Association of Suicidology and a non-profit suicide organization, the numbers showed a growing number of suicides in all parts of the country. What I didn’t know was that there were 3 times as more men committing suicide than women in all of the years I had looked into. Also, this may be from watching too many crime television shows like Law and Order, but I assumed most of the suicides happened with people tying a noose around their necks and dying in their homes. However, the data showed that suffocation was actually the second most used method with firearms coming out on top every year.
	
The biggest problem that I encountered in collecting the data was the idea that the total number of suicides in all of the datasets may in fact not be 100% accurate. For example, CDC listed the total number of attempted suicides from 2009 to 2012, stating that there were at least 25 attempted suicides for each act that ended in a death. However, that number may be true to some degree but what we don’t know is the number of attempted suicides that didn’t get recorded or included when conducting this study. Along with that, one of the hardest things I realized when trying to do a story and find data about a topic that is murky like suicide, was that many people didn’t have a comprehensive list of the total number of casualties that took place each year. But I think I did the best I could in finding enough information from reputable sources to put together a story that shows people the point I wanted to get across about the increase in suicide deaths and rates in the United States year after year.


<p><b> List of Data Source </b><p>

https://zm02.pobox.stanford.edu/service/home/~/?auth=co&loc=en_US&id=4881&part=2&view=html
⇒	This is the data source that I got from the public information officer from Caltrain that lists the number of fatalities on the train’s right of way within the last 5 years. It broke down the numbers by suicide deaths, unintended (homicide), pending and total number of deaths, which made it very easy to read. I thought this was almost one of the most important data source to this project because it validated and supported my point about suicides in the Bay Area in relation to Caltrain. I didn’t have to do any calculation since Christine Dunn, the PIO, e-mailed me the breakdown of the numbers, and I had no problems or inconsistencies when I received this data. 

http://www.suicidology.org/resources/facts-statistics
http://www.suicide.org/suicide-statistics.html#2005
https://www.afsp.org/understanding-suicide/facts-and-figures
http://lostallhope.com/suicide-statistics/us-methods-suicide


-> I’m combining all of these four websites into one group because they all presented me with the same information. I was able to put together this final product by using the statistics, graphs, charts and information I got from these sources. They gave me breakdowns of the total number of deaths in the nation, then went even further by naming each state that was affected by suicides and its ranking compared to the other 50 states in relation to the rate at which the deaths occurred and the final numerical value of the fatalities. These data sources were relevant to my project because they basically told my story. If I didn’t have these charts and graphs to help break down the increasing problem in this country, I probably would’ve had to change my subject to something more do-able. I didn’t notice any problems but I did notice one or two of the graphs were off by a few numbers when compared to the number that the CDC had on file. However, it wasn’t a drastic difference, which I looked at as the problem of the unreported suicides and attempted suicides that may have been included on some lists but left out in others.


